One of the reasons people don't
necessarily like the whole idea of CSS in JS
is because it scopes things.
Like, one of the benefits to CSS in JS
is that it is scoping things.
Meaning that if you apply a specific style to this header,
no other H1 on the page is going to have that styles
leak into it unless you explicitly give it those styles.
And there's sort of this other argument on the other side
where people say, well, do you know what CSS stands for?
It's cascading.
How do you spell it?
It is Cascading Style Sheets.
And the cascading means that you can apply
styles at a very high level, maybe at a page level,
and then they'll apply to everything on the page.
That's the beauty of CSS,
and you can totally do that in CSS in JS.
In fact, I recommend it because things
like setting font colors and font sizes
and typography and resetting boarders
and margin and padding all of that stuff,
it's not something that you should have to
redo every single time that you
crack open a style component,
because that gets really repetitive,
and it gets very hard to manage if
you were to ever change one of those things like the font.
So what I'm going to do now is to do some global styling,
and I tend to just reset my padding,
set background colors, set font sizes,
and set typography globally,
and then all of my other styles will live in components.
And that's why we've imported this
injectGlobal function that we have here,
and it's coming from styled components.
Actually this is red because it's sort of a best practice
to always import your packages first
and then import your local components after that.
So I have a little ESLint rule that will
yell at me if I accidentally do that.
Similarly it will give me a warning
if I have an unused piece.
In this case I have not used injectGlobal yet.
However, now we simply need to go ahead and use it,
so anywhere on this page.
This is a little bit weird because
you don't assign it to a variable
and set it somewhere.
You just need to call it anywhere in your application,
and that's going to inject the global CSS.
We simply call it injectGlobal,
and we'll go ahead and write some selectors.
Make sure you actually write your selector here
and not just start doing something, like background:red,
because that's not going to be applied to anything.
Because this is global CSS, you do need your selector,
and then inside of that we'll say box-sizing: border-box,
and font-size: 10px,
and that's going to set the base
font of the document as 10px
and then I'm going to use rems as a base 10.
I'll come back to that in a second.
Next we want to select star.
We want to star before and star after.
And what that's going to do is we can grab our box sizing
and change that to inherit.
Apparently this is the best way to set box sizing
border box on absolutely everything
is set it on the root of your document in HTML
and then inherit it on absolutely everything else.
Then we want to select our body,
and on that body we'll do padding: 0, margin: 0,
and if we give this a save,
we should now see that the margin that we had before.
If we comment these out,
we see that we do have some padding
to the left and to the right on that body.
Then we put 'em back on, they will be totally gone.
We want to set the font size to 1.5rem,
and the reason why I did it 10px here
is so that everything is base 10 for me,
and that I know 1.5rem is going to be 15 pixels
and I don't have to do the math,
'cause I believe the base font size for
the browser is something like 16,
and then you're always working base 16
and I'm not that good at math.
We'll set a line height to 2.
Things are starting to look good.
Let's actually tackle font family,
and how do you do custom fonts?
If you take a look at your static folder,
you'll see that I have this red Nika Next
web font there for you.
So we wanna load that in ourselves.
And the way that you do that is just like you did
within any normal CSS, so we define a font face
and we name it the font-family as rednika_next.
Say the source of that is URL,
and we're going to go to the root /static/rednikanext woff,
and the format is going to be woff2.
That's all we need to support
the latest and greatest browsers.
And then font-weight is going to be normal,
and the font-style is going to be normal.
Now we should be able to just take this font family
and pop it either on our document.
Our HTML, doesn't really matter,
and that should change.
There we go.
We got this red Nika Next font popping up for us.
I'm pretty happy about that.
Let's select our anchor links,
and we'll say text-decoration: none.
Take off that underline.
Color is going to be the theme black that we have.
And normally you would do something like this
where you would grab the props.
You'll say props.theme.black.
However, that is not going to work,
and I'll tell you why.
Make sure you put a semicolon there.
Because we're not inside of
the theme provider at this point.
Any component inside of the theme provider
can have access to this props.theme,
however, because we're just injecting global
or settings in global styles here,
we don't have access to that props.theme.black.
However, luckily it's in the same file,
so it's within scope of this module,
and I'm able to just access the theme variable
and the black on top of it.
If that wasn't the case,
you'd have to export it from this file
and then import it in or refactor it out into its own file.
So let's go back and we can just replace
all of this with just theme.black,
and things are starting to look good.
Let me just double check my answer here.
Make sure we've got all of
the styles that we're looking for.
Looks like we're in good shape.
Next what we need to do is spend
a bit of time styling up our nav.
Let's crack open up the nav.js
and you'll see that I also have given you this file
called NavStyles where I'm just creating a unordered list
and inside of that we have a whole bunch.
I have display: flex on it, I have justified it to the end.
I've styled both links and buttons
that live in the nav are going to look exactly the same
and I'll show you why.
It's because this cart button.
That's actually a button.
And then the rest of them are actually,
well, I don't have it running right now,
but the rest of them are actually just links.
So I've selected both of them to run at the exact same time.
There's a couple of media queries in here.
And what else is kind of interesting?
This little cool underline dealie
when you underline something it will be red.
That's using the after pseudo-element.
I've made it 2 pixels high,
and I've just done some tricky trickerson
in my CSS in order to make that work.
So there's not a whole lot going on here.
I'm not gonna sit here and spend half an hour
typing this all out for you.
Just know that a lot of the style components
that I've given you for this course,
they already live in this styles folder
and we'll be pulling upon them for the rest of this course.
And we'll still be writing some CSS,
but a majority of it will be in here.
So let's go into our nav here
and let's go ahead and import that component.
So NavStyles from, whoops,
NavStyles.
And then we'll swap out this div with the NavStyles.
This is actually gonna be an unordered list.
Give that a save.
Let's see how we, oh ho, look at that.
It's already looking way better.
You've got this kind of,
oh, that's actually another cool thing.
Let me show you how I got those angled lines.
I thought that was, I was pretty proud of that.
Skew 20 degrees.
No.
I think it is skew.
Yeah, so just by skewing, I used to think I would have to
take the before element, which is just this gray line
and I had to rotate it and then stretch it to fit.
But apparently just by doing skew, it will both rotate it
from the center and make sure that
they hit perfectly top and bottom.
I was pretty happy about learning that.
So we have all of our elements in here,
and then inside of our nav we simply just need to have links
to all of the different things that are on our site.
So let's take a quick look.
We have items, we have sell, we have signup, we have orders,
and we have account.
And these are gonna be shown and hidden
based on if the user is logged in or not,
but for now we're just gonna wrap
each of them in a link tag.
So I'm going to get rid of these links right here
and we're just going to write some link tags.
Href equals forward slash that.
Then inside of each of these,
we have a anchor link that goes to nothing
and then the word, and we'll go through each of these.
So items.
This is going to be sell.
This will just be signup.
This will be orders.
And this would be account.
Bam.
Obviously these aren't gonna work if you click on them.
You're gonna get an error.
An unexpected error has occurred,
'cause they don't exist just yet.
Only the home page and the sell page will currently work.
But we are gonna come back and create all of these pages
plus a couple more for administrative purposes.
Things are starting to look pretty good now.
Let's jump into a couple more things with the routing
and then we're good for graphic UL.